DOCS-5339 create references for has and protect helpers (#688)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object.mdx

# `Authentication` object

Both [`auth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth) and  [`getAuth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/get-auth) return an `Authentication` object. This JavaScript object contains important information like session data, your user's ID, as well as their active organization ID.
Both [`auth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth) and  [`getAuth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/get-auth) return an `Authentication` object. This JavaScript object contains important information like the current user's session ID, user ID, and organization ID. It also contains methods to check for permissions and retrieve the current user's session token.

> ## Properties

Reviewer: Hash redirect

| `orgSlug` | `string \|undefined` | The current user's active organization slug. |
| `orgPermissions` | <code>[OrganizationCustomPermissionKey[]](#organization-custom-role-key) \| undefined</code> | The current user's active organization permissions. |
| [`has`](#has) | <code>(isAuthorizedParams: [CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions](#check-authorization-params-with-custom-permissions)) => boolean</code> | A function that returns a boolean based on the permission or role provided as parameter. Can be used for authorization. |
| [`getToken`](#get-token) | [`ServerGetToken`](#server-get-token) | A function that returns a promise that resolves to the current user's session token. Can also be used to retrieve a custom JWT template. |
| `claims` | `JwtPayload` | The current user's [session claims](/docs/backend-requests/resources/session-tokens#default-session-claims). |
| `actor` | `ActClaim \| undefined` | Holds identifier for the user that is impersonating the current user. |
| `debug` | `AuthObjectDebug` | Used to help debug issues when using Clerk in development. |

> ## Example

Reviewer: Hash redirect

> `OrganizationCustomRoleKey` is a string that represents the role of the user in the organization. Clerk provides the [default roles](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions#default-roles) `org:admin` and `org:member`. However, [custom roles can be created](/docs/organizations/create-roles-permissions) and used as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`OrganizationCustomRoleKey` is a string that represents the user's role in the organization. Clerk provides the [default roles](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions#default-roles) `org:admin` and `org:member`. However, you can create [custom roles](/docs/organizations/create-roles-permissions) as well.
```

> `OrganizationCustomPermissionKey` is a string that represents the permission of the user in the organization. Clerk provides [default System Permissions](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions#permissions). However, [custom permissions can be created](/docs/organizations/create-roles-permissions#create-a-new-permission-for-your-organization) and used as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`OrganizationCustomPermissionKey` is a string that represents the permission of the user in the organization. Clerk provides [default System Permissions](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions#system-permissions), and you can create [custom permissions](/docs/organizations/create-roles-permissions#create-a-new-permission-for-your-organization).
```

> Clerk's `has()` helper can be used on both the frontend and the backend to determine if the user *has* a role or permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`has()` can be used on both the frontend and the backend to determine if the user *has* a role or permission.
```

> `has()` can be used anywhere that Clerk returns an [`Authentication` object](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `has()` anywhere Clerk returns an [`Authentication`](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object) object:
```

- [`auth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth) in Next.js App Router
- [`useAuth()`](/docs/references/react/use-auth) in Client Components, including during SSR
- [`getAuth(request)`](/docs/references/nextjs/get-auth) in server contexts outside of the App Router and SSR (Remix Loaders, Node, Express, Fastify, etc)

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has
```typescript
```

function has(isAuthorizedParams: CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions) => boolean;
```

#### `CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions`

> `has()` accepts an `isAuthorizedParams` parameter. The `isAuthorizedParams` parameter, with the type `CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions`, is an object with either a `role` or a `permission`, or both can be used together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`has()` has the following function signature:

```typescript
function has(isAuthorizedParams: CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions) => boolean;
```

`CheckAuthorizationParamsWithCustomPermissions` has the following properties:
```

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `role` | `string` | The role to check for. |
| `permission` | `string` | The permission to check for. |

#### `has()` example

> You can use `has()` in order to check if a user is authorized to access a component. In the following example, `has()` is used to check if the user has the `org:team_settings:manage` permission. If the user does not have the permission, `null` is returned and the "Team Settings" component is not rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `has()` to check if a user is authorized to access a component. In the following example:

- `has()` is used to check if the user has the `org:team_settings:manage` permission.
- If the user does not have the permission, `null` is returned and the "Team Settings" component is not rendered.
```

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx"
import { auth } from '@clerk/nextjs';

export default async function Page() {
  const { has } = auth();

  const canManage = has({ permission:"org:team_settings:manage" });

  if(!canManage) return null;  

  return <h1>Team Settings</h1>
}
```

### `getToken()`

> The `getToken()` method on the `Authentication` object can be used to retrieve the current user's session token. This method can also be used to retrieve a custom JWT template. It has the type `ServerGetToken`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `getToken()` on an `Authentication` object to retrieve the current user's session token. You can also use this method to retrieve a custom JWT template. It has the type `ServerGetToken`.
```

#### `ServerGetToken`

```typescript
type ServerGetToken = (options?: ServerGetTokenOptions) => Promise<string | null>;
```

#### `ServerGetTokenOptions`

> The `getToken()` method on the `Authentication` object accepts an optional `options` parameter. The `options` parameter, with the type `ServerGetTokenOptions`, is an object with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getToken()` accepts an optional `options` parameter, which has the following properties:
```

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `template?` | `string` | The name of the custom JWT template to retrieve. |

## `Authentication` object example without active organization

> The following is an example of the `Authentication` object without an active organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the `Authentication` object without an active organization:
```

}
```

> ## `Authentication` object example with active organization

Reviewer: Hash redirect

> The following is an example of the `Authentication` object with an active organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the `Authentication` object with an active organization:
```
